AI Programmer - Junior/Mid Level
Documentary Q&A Backend
Overview
Your task is to build a backend service that allows a user to ask natural language questions
about a long documentary, and receive accurate answers with references back to the source
material.

The documentary is provided to you as a transcript text file. You do not need to process video or
audio.

Context: This type of system — retrieving relevant information from a large corpus and
answering questions grounded in that source — is directly representative of the work you
will do on this team, including building tools over large codebases and technical
documentation.
What You Will Receive
 A plain text transcript file of the documentary
 "An Investigation into Domestic Dangers Through History"
 Approximately 190KB of plain text — large enough that it fits in modern LLM context
windows, but you are explicitly required to use a retrieval-based approach regardless
(see Requirements)
 This assignment document
Deliverable
A working backend application that exposes an HTTP API with the following behaviour:

Field Description
Endpoint POST /ask
Request body { "question": "<user question>" }
Response body { "answer": "...", "sources": [ { "timestamp": T, "excerpt": "..." } ] }
Sources At least 2–3 ranked source references per answer
Requirements
Functional
 The system must use a retrieval-based approach: embed the transcript, store in a vector
index, and retrieve relevant chunks per query
 Feeding the full transcript directly into the LLM context on each request is not
acceptable, even though it would technically fit
 Your design doc must describe your chunking and retrieval strategy — this is a core
part of the evaluation
 Questions must be answered in natural language based solely on the transcript content
 Each answer must include source references with rough time code and a short excerpt
 Sources must be ranked by relevance to the question
 The service must start and run with a single command (e.g. docker compose up or a
simple readme instruction)
Non-functional
 No mandatory cloud dependency — the service must run without requiring a paid
subscription
 Free-tier APIs (Groq, Gemini, etc.) are acceptable
 A fully local setup (e.g. Ollama) is acceptable and noted as a bonus — see below
 If you use a free-tier API, document clearly how to obtain and configure a key
 The LLM backend should be configurable — ideally switchable between providers
without code changes (environment variable or config file)
 Response time under 30 seconds for a typical question on standard hardware
Required: Short Design Document
Include a DESIGN.md file in your repository. It does not need to be long — half a page to one
page is more than enough. Cover the following:

How you chunked the transcript and why you chose that strategy
How retrieval works — what you embed, how you search, what model or library you use
How you construct the prompt sent to the LLM
What you would improve given more time
Why this matters: We will use the design doc to understand how you reason about the
problem, not just whether the code runs. A candidate who uses a framework but can explain
what it does underneath is more valuable than one who cannot.
How We Will Evaluate It
We will run your service locally and send it the following five test questions. You will not know
these in advance — design for correctness, not for these specific inputs:

 A factual question about a specific event mentioned in the documentary
 A question requiring synthesis of information from two different parts of the transcript
 A question about a named person or location
 A vague or broadly phrased question
 A question whose answer is not in the transcript at all
We will assess:

 Answer correctness and grounding in the source material
 Quality and accuracy of source references
 Handling of the out-of-scope question (does it hallucinate, or does it say it doesn't
know?)
 Code clarity and project structure
 Design document — reasoning quality, not length
Bonus (Optional)
These are not required. Do not attempt them at the expense of the core deliverable.

 Fully local setup: service runs entirely offline using a local model (e.g. Ollama + llama3),
with no external API calls required
 Streaming responses: the API streams the answer token-by-token
 A minimal web UI (a text field and output area is sufficient)
Rules and Notes
 You may use any language, framework, or library — explain them in your design doc
 Your submission must be a git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or a zip with git history)
 Include a README with setup instructions — assume the reviewer has Docker and
Python/Node but nothing else pre-configured
 Time expectation: we estimate 1–2 days for a solid implementation. Do not over-
engineer it
 You can use AI to build the tool itself but you have to understand design choices and
implementation itself. It has to be driven by you, not by AI.
Submission
Send a link to your repository (or a zip file) along with a one-paragraph summary of any design
decisions you are particularly happy with, or anything you did not have time for.

Questions? If anything in this brief is unclear, ask before you start — that is also part of the
evaluation. Clarifying requirements before building is a professional habit we value.
Good luck.